---
layout: post
tags: [personal, thoughts, oh I love being a woman]
---

###### Note: In this article I use the word "men" but I don't want to erase trans men's existence, nor do I want to push stuff that they don't have much to do with on them. My personal experience is with cis men and people who are percieved as cis het men (?) so that is what I'm thinking about when I talk about men. But I think de-tangling cis men and trans men's and NB masc people's relationship to patriarchy and masculinity is also a big discussion and one that I'm not knowledgeable or experienced enough to talk about yet. So just keep this in mind when you read this article.

I don't know for sure of course but I really think all of us who were raised as a girl, as a woman, hold an ungodly rage in our body, against men and the patriarchal world. We are just subconsciously managing it (I saw Rakey say this the other day and it is the perfect way to put it. I'm not sure if someone "coined" that phrase so I'm just gonna credit Rakey) most of the time. 

There is so much to be angry about. Learning feminism is partly a journey of learning that we deserve to be mad about yet another thing.

The standard for men is in hell.

Men operate with "bottom lines" rather than "morals", and bottom lines are to be constantly tested and pushed, the final shape of it determined by their personal liking. Men are taught, trained to be the worst they can possibly be. The most violent they can possibly be. The most inconsiderate. The most space taking and energy sucking. Whether that limit is self imposed because they think they are a good person if they "at least don't do xyz", or it is enforced from outside like by law. And it's so incredibly ingrained. When a man understands being physically violent is wrong, you can't assume he understands groping is wrong. When a man understands abortion is needed, you can't expect him to understand the pay gap. When a man understands why we don't like walking in the dark alone, he doesn't nessicarily understand why the "jokes" his "friends" tells are not funny. 

The things you expect to get from just being treated as an equal human being, you can never get from most men. You have to explain to them step by step, this is bad because it hurts us, this is also bad, and yes it also hurts us... It's normalised to a scary extent, and some days I don't even want to face the full extent of it. But some days I do. And it feels like I want to burn the whole world down. It is a powerful thing, to acknoledge that and to sit with it.

<don't know where to insert this part:>
It doesn't start from one individual but they definitely each are complicit in their own dehumanisation (stripping of empathy etc) and they definitely enjoy the perks. I have some sympathy for men like I do for everyone forced to participate in this system. But none of my actions or words will actually shake up how they <be> in the world. They have to do this work on themselves. 

<also don't know where to insert this part:>
There's also this pattern I'm starting to see with injustices and describing or explaining them to people. I don't think people get it. Or maybe I should say, whether people "get it" or not doesn't come from what you say. A fragmented understanding from the top down, from the outside in is often incorrect and misses the point. 

--

I hid. I have felt some kind of pressure to be a certain way because I present/am perceived as a feminist. I would see feminists online (the only place I had to learn about feminism and progress on it) say "just don't date men", "just dump him", and the comments sections are all like "same", "I got a divorce and never felt better", and similar stuff. It's ridiculous that I feel the need to clarify that I am happy for these people. But my point is I didn't feel like there was room for me. Someone who still allowed bad men (which is really, let's just say all of them except a few, and I only add an "except" because I know one) in my life even I was supposedly already a feminist. I needed support badly, but I felt like I didn't deserve support from the perspective of the feminist space I was in.

So I pretended the problem is not there. I want to pretend I didn't make a mistake, therefore I'm still a worthy feminist. But that also means, I cannot reach out for support. I have silenced myself, which is not my subjective intuition but learned.

When we talk about "be careful to not replicate carceral logic in your work", I think this is also what we need to talk about. Caceral logic don't just show up with teech and claws like cancel cultuer, calling shooters or corrupt leaders insane, and wishing people to get arrested. It's actually also so normalised and ingrained, and can manifest if we're just a bit less careful. It's something we need to acvitely counter instead of only doing something when the effects can already be seen. I'm not "blaming" the space I was in per se, as I myself also have placed carceral logic onto myself, but I just think it's something we need to be more mindful of. On the other hand, this is another instance that shows oppressive forces are interlinked and supports each other. I have come to realise the space I was in is more accurately called "liberal feminist" or "white feminist". It is lacking in intersectionality and is not informed by <actual liberatory principles or abolition or fundamental understanding of oppression>.

--

Since this is an article and not an Instagram caption or stories, now I can drag on as long as I want!! So let's get into some personal history and context as well. (I'm starting to think this "give all the context" thing is autistic too) I was gonna put this before the "main course" of the article but managed to put it at the end. I think this will further clarify my individual experience and how I fit into the broader picture, if you were curious about that.

I was not raised "conservatively" as an east Asian girl, and well I'm autistic, so I grew up either protected from or being sbjectively blind to a lot of misogyny in my life. This is honestly a lot to get into because it interacts with ableism in many ways. I was a smart child and I liked every subject, but the way science is taught and assessed fits more with my learning style so I always thought I'm a science person, in the "what do you want to be" sense, even though I loved reading about philosophy, history and social sciences. (I was the kid who blasts through books too) And again because I'm autistic my behaviour puts me into the "tomboy" category of girls/women. I both felt the need to declare "I'm not like other girls" in an attempt to be seen as fully human like basically every girl at some stage, and I was literally not like other girls, I was not like other humans actually. When I read books, incidentally most of them are written by men and I understood and engagged with them just fine(\*). So I thought. Most scientists and scholars are men so any role model to me really (even though I didn't think I saw them as role models, they certainly took this effect) are all men. In conclusion, I felt aligned with men and aligned myself with men, in my small world. To be honest I didn't even know feminism existed. I'm functionally like a clueless dude at this point, who will probably instinctively reply to a more radical take on patriarchy with "not all men though". I wouldn't say I didn't get exposed to *any* feminist thinking or to women's collective suffering, but I definitely didn't think hard on it as much as "the meaning of life" or some shit.

This only started to change in a more fundamental way when I got increased access to the internet in high school with my first smart phone. Naturally I got on the chinese version of twitter (微博) and started to follow scientests and researchers, and journalists and activists - as someone with a strong sense of justice (I think this post I saw recently does a good job of explaining it [post]) and aware of the corruption and censorship in China, I knew there was a lot to be learned from a trusted independent source. I think that's how I started to learn about the crackdown on feminist organisations and queer organisations, included in the broader crackdown on anything that may cause "instability". If I remember correctly, this is my introduction to feminism. From a place of comfortably living my own life (altho unaware how patriarchy is playing out near me and on me) and watching others face the blunt of it.
I think I must have started to intuitively feel something is wrong "near me" too. Or it's accumulated to a certain amount/accumulating. But this was only the beginning.

I continue to slowly develop <whatever this is>. After some years, I started dating a man seriously for the first time (idk if he would be reading this). That definitely put an acceleration to things. I'm sure if you are a woman or dated a man as a woman/femme, you can imagine what it's like, or you have experienced it first hand too.

The problem is as practical as it is emotional. I needed to save myself, many times over. To save myself, I needed to demonstrate the problem, and convince the other person that it needs to be solved too, and most importantly it needs *his* effort to be solved, not just mine. Or I could have said goodbye - I'll get to that later.


